---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "anxcloud_network_prefix Resource - terraform-provider-anxcloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  This resource allows you to create and configure network prefix.
---

# anxcloud_network_prefix (Resource)

This resource allows you to create and configure network prefix.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "anxcloud_core_location" "anx04" {
  code = "ANX04"
}

resource "anxcloud_vlan" "example" {
  location_id = data.anxcloud_core_location.anx04.id
}

resource "anxcloud_network_prefix" "example" {
  vlan_id     = anxcloud_vlan.example.id
  location_id = data.anxcloud_core_location.anx04.id
  ip_version  = 4
  type        = 0
  netmask     = 29
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `location_id` (String) Identifier of the location to create the prefix at.
- `netmask` (Number) Netmask size. Example: 29 which would result in x.x.x.x/29.

### Optional

- `create_empty` (Boolean) Whether the prefix should be created with inactive IPs
- `description_customer` (String) Additional description.
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `ip_version` (Number) The Prefix version: 4 = IPv4, 6 = IPv6.
- `organization` (String) Customer of yours. Reseller only.
- `router_redundancy` (Boolean) If router Redundancy shall be enabled.
- `tags` (List of String) List of tags attached to the resource.
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))
- `type` (Number) The Prefix type: 0 = Public, 1 = Private.
- `vlan_id` (String) The corresponding VLAN identifier

### Read-Only

- `cidr` (String) CIDR of the created prefix.
- `description_internal` (String) Internal description.
- `locations` (List of Object) Anexia Cloud Locations. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--locations))
- `role_text` (String) Role of the prefix.
- `status` (String) Status of the created prefix.

<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)
- `delete` (String)
- `read` (String)
- `update` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--locations"></a>
### Nested Schema for `locations`

Read-Only:

- `city_code` (String) Location city code.
- `code` (String) Location code.
- `country` (String) Location country.
- `identifier` (String) Identifier of the API resource.
- `lat` (String) Location latitude.
- `lon` (String) Location longitude.
- `name` (String) Location name.


